Hello everyone. So now we
enter chapter 7, start
talking about the economy in the
medium run. In this chapter,
we will start with talking about the
labor market. Ohh
We will start have some brief
introduction about the labor market.
Then we talked about the unemployment,
also unemployment rates and
after that we will go insidethe
supply and demand of the labor,
which in the labor market context, we
call it a wage determination and price
determination. Ohh
After that, we are building up the supply
and demand for the labor. We will
discuss the equilibrium of the labor
market, which in turn direct us to the
discussion about what we call natural
rate of unemployment.
After that, we will conclude this session
by discussing how we
incorporate labor market
into the ISLM model
that we have already built, which is only
about the goods market and financial
markets. After incorporating
the labor market in the ISLM model, we
will have the ohh
extended ISLM model for the
equilibrium. in the medium run.
So about labor market.
Before we are focusing only on short
run, that we think
about the supply of
the total outputs are fixed
uh in in the economy.
Also, that leads towe
assume that the price level doesn't
change as well. But when we talked about
the equilibrium in the medium run,
we were going to incorporate the
price change. Because in the medium
run, the production can be changed.
If we have change in production that we
have change in supply, that will
lead to the price we're going to change
as well. So in the medium run,
comparing to the short run
we have
in short run we have
we have demand
is viable
plus supply
is fixed
Right. Also we have price
supply is about production
and so that's inflation
which is the change of price
is 0 in short run, but in the medium
run.
what happened
about the supply
will be viable so that the
inflation and
price will
all be viable.
Then price can be changing thatMeans the
inflation could be not zero.
Basically in medium run we have
inflation. Inflation is basically change
of price.
OK. So that's the main contrast
about the medium run and short run.
OK and.
Labor market is
actually the center of
all these events. Basically, for
production, firms are going to need
to hire people to
produce things when the supply
of the total output or production of the
total output is changing.
Down to the earth, it is because the
labor market can be adjusted in the
medium run as well.
So let's talk about the labor market.
So this is actually a kind of a
review of the intermediate macro
talking about
population, labor force, employment,
unemployment, right?So
regarding um
this non-institutional civilian
population.
Those are
basically the amount of
employed people plus
unemployed people plus the people not
in the labor force. So these are,
by definition, 16 years of
age and older
residing within the US
who is not in
Institute institutions
basically who are not
in custody
and who are not in their active duty.
So regarding all these
non-institutional civilian, we
can
categorize this group of people by
whether they are in the labor force or
not. Right. In the labor force we have
employed people or unemployed people,
right. So and this calculation we
have introduced at the beginning
of the class
already, right. The unemployment rate
is the amount of unemployed people
over the labor force.
The labor force participation rate is the
amount of the labor force.
over the non-institutional civilian
population, right?So one
is the percentage of U in
E + U here. The other
is the
percentage of E + U
in E + U + N.
OK,
so uh
ifYou look
deeper inside
these amount of employment,
unemployment and not in labor force.
These are variables that
actually
sorry, these are
actually stock
variables.
Right. Because by definition, they are
telling you at this very moment how many
people are employed or how many people
are unemployed. They are stock
variables.
And because
the composition of the unemployment rate
and labor force participation rate are
all from stock variables, that makes the.
These two rates are
also stock variable, that
they are actually reflecting the
stock
of this economic situation.
So
that actually leads to another
question. So we only know about the
stock. In
the labor market, how about the flows,
right?Actually flow matters as well,
right?If we only know about the
unemployment rate, we don't
actually know about it is because
it is it because we have a lot of
hires and separations. Separations
here means that we have
layouts and firing,
OK. Is it
because the we have a lot of people
entering and exiting the unemployment
or we have a just relatively
less people entering or exiting
unemployment, right?
All this scenario could give you a same
labor, sorry, unemployment rate.
So only knowing the stock viable wouldn't
give you the complete picture. of the
labor market, we also need to know
about the flows. Uh
What is the situation of
people flowing across different
categories in the labor market?
If we have a lot
of people, if the flow is
very huge, that couldn't that couldn't
be a good thing.
Right. That means we have a very high
turnover rate in labor markets.
People's jobs are very insecure.
So only knowing
all those unemployment rates wouldn't be
enough to have the whole picture.
So how do we know about the flows?This is
also coming from the labor
statistics by this.
What we call the current population
survey.
Actually, I don't know whether you guys
have this
experience previously
in your household. Sometimes you will
receive this population
survey questionnaire for the whole
household and ask you.
Your what was your
occupation?How many?How many people in
your household?How many child in the
household?What's your income?
Those are actually for actually
this survey and actually for economist
to analyze the whole
labor situation and macroeconomic
situation of the country.
OK, so if next time you
receive this kind of
survey. take some time uh
filling it out and and we will have a
better information and data
to make a good and appropriate
policy.
Okay, so the graph right-hand side
represents not only the
stock variables, but also the
flows across
these different categories.
OK, so basically um
from
employment to
out of labour force,
main reason are retirement.
OK, from out of labour force to
employment, um
mainly they are uh fresh graduates. They
they could be other reasons
um because at at the first the.
Students are not count as
in the labor force. They are out of labor
force. OK. And
from employment to
unemployment, people
got fired basically or they fire
themselves. And
from unemployment goes to employment,
mainly the main reasons are people
basically find a job OK and
this.
Self-directed arrow in the
employment basically are
about people switching to a new job
without actually without any time that
is unemployed. So they just
switch to a new job like seamlessly.
And from the out of labor force to
unemployment, there are reasons of
people are discouraged. So they
stop searching for a job for a long time
and they come come back
searching for a job. At
at the moment they restart
searching, they become unemployed.
OK,
unless they go straight to the
employment, right?So.
For example, people
that there's a firm just send
you a letter, give you a job
offer because like
they know you beforehand and you decide
to take the job. So right away you go
from out of the labor force to
unemployment.
Conditional on previously you are not
looking for a job for more than four
weeks. And also for
unemployment to out of labor force,
basically main reasons are people
stop searching, so they are they got
discouraged. If
they stop searching after four
weeks, then they
automatically also count in out of labor
force.
So some facts about
the the US.
in the recent 20 years. So the
flows of workers in and out of the
employment are large.
So people are having
reasons from
employment to unemployment and employment
to out of labor force. Ohh
These are 1.8
and 3.7
millions. So that's
summed together actually
Counts nearly the
amount of the unemployment
stock, right?So.
Flows in and out are large, and flows in
and out of unemployment are also
large relative to the number of
unemployed, right?Coming
about the outflow, either you got
employed or you are discouraged
to the not in the labor force.
These two flows sums to be
3.6, right?
50% of the unemployment.
unemployment stock and also
the inflow from
employed plus the inflow from the out
of labor force together 3.8
is also 50 percent
of the unemployment stock. So
what this really means is like
for the whole pool
almost half of it
Every month, almost half of
half of the whole pool
will go from unemployed to
employed or out of labor force will move
up. And also 50%,
almost 50% of the
size of the stock will be moving. So
unemployment is
very unstable, right?We have a very high
turnover. People
become employed or people move out from
the unemployment pretty frequently.
People move in from unemployment
pretty frequently, right?So it might
be a good thing. It will be a good thing
for the economy if people can move
out from the unemployment, especially to
the to employment easily, right?
So that would be the
ideal target policy for the.
labor policy, right?And the labor
policy also want to make
people's job more stable.
Right. To
try, ideally want to decrease the
inflow to the unemployment,
sorry, the the people.
Move from employed to unemployed.
OK, so the third observation
will beThere are also large flows in
in and out of the labor force, much of
it directly to and from employment.
So in and out
of the labor force means that
in and out of employed and
unemployed, right?So
basically we are looking from, if it is
in, then we are looking from
this and this flow.
If it's out, we're looking for this and
this flow.
Many people are classified as
out-of-labor force, in fact, discouraged
workers. They are not actively looking
for a job, but we'll take it if they
find one.
Rather than unemployment rate,
economics sometimes focus on the
employment rate, the
ratio
of the employment
to the whole population.
These are purely from
human definition. Uh
Because the employment rates will
have thebase regarding the whole
population, so it is not
not one minus unemployment rate. So
this is something that
you need to pay attention.
Because unemployment rate
is the unemployed over the
total labor force.
Okay, so
The denominator is different.
OK, uh you can take a closer look on
the current population survey. So
this is the main source of the
government to specific
labor department
and also Department of Trade and
Commerce. To know about the
macroeconomic situation and
unemployment, the labor market is the key
factor of the country's
macroeconomic performance.
So all those
labor force participation
rate, the amount of labor force
unemployment, all these labor
statistics are actually based on the
calculation from the labor current
population survey. So it
has several different
kinds of survey that's
included. Some are more frequent.
You ask a selection, a
random selection of households to send
out e-mail, send out basically
letters. So a
paper questionnaire asks people to fill
out the data. And there
are other kind of survey
That is asking shorter
smaller amount of questions but sent
out to a larger
population of household in the less
frequent time to to to have a more macro
data
that is not that precise about
wage unemployment but
more about.
specific topics about
well-being, mental health, et cetera. So
they have main
rounds of the survey and also supplement
surveys for the CPS.
So as we have a brief understanding
about the labor market, let's go straight
into unemployment. So
this is the data that we plot the
unemployment rate across time.
As you can see, it's actually pretty
fluctuated, right?And
And you may notice
all this shaded bar,This shaded
bar, this shaded period actually
indicates the US economy
is in a recession.
So then combining these two, the
fluctuation of the unemployment rates and
the recession periods,
you're going to notice that the
unemployment rates go up
when the economy is in recession,
go down when the economies was.
Was out of recession. OK,
this is actually reflecting that
a pretty simple logic. If we have
firms and overall
macroeconomic is not performing well, so
the firm cannot sell.
If firm cannot sell, then they
must
cut down their production. If they cut
down their production, they have to lay
off their workers. So people
there will be more people out of walk.
In that sense, the
unemployment rates will go up,
right?And On the contrary,
when the macroeconomic
was doing good, the firm
is expanding. So
that they would need to hire more
people. So more people will get a job
and unemployment rates will go
down, right?This is pretty
if you look at the reality data,
the hiring in the tech firms for
computer scientists, data scientists
actually pretty reflects
this logic.
So when several years
before, when the tech
industry was doing very good, when the
economy was doing well because
of the stimulus
from the COVID
relief plan, the tech firms actually
hiring a lot of computer scientists and
data scientists.
But if you look at it recently, OK,
the economy's not doing good. Tech firms
are shrinking their size. The first round
of layoff will be this
actual
computer scientist that actually hiring
during the expansion, right?The
firm we're gonna need to. Keep a lower
amount of them to to maintain the will
be enough for them to maintain the daily
operation. Right now
they're not in the expanding phrases, so
those people who hired during the
expanding phrases will be laid off
right at the first round, right?
So this is pretty brutal, but ohh
it reflects the
fundamentals of macroeconomics. OK,
so this is about. the
fluctuation of unemployment over time.
So let's dive in a little bit.
So this is the data of
unemployment rate and the
proportion of unemployed
become employed within a month. So
unemployed become employed will be
the flow from unemployed to employed,
right?SoIf we go back to the graph,
I'm giving out these numbers
to indicate the flow. So
from unemployed to employed will be
flow two, right?
And that's we we call
it a proportion, so it will be
dividing by the origin
of this flow. So this is a. The
numerator is a flow variable, the
denominator is the
stock variable. So at the end, the whole
term is actually a flow variable,
right?So if we
plot this change of
the stock variable, sorry, we
plot this stock variable versus this
flow variable, see what's going on.
They actually shares the same.
Tendency, but keep a close eye
is the proportion
of unemployed become employed
is plotting in
a reverse y-axis.
So it is getting bigger and bigger
from top to the top to the bottom.
OK, but they all they actually
shows a.
A cold movement, a strong cold movement.
OK, so when the unemployment rate is
higher,
the proportion of unemployed become
employed become lower.
It is
going up, but the
scale is going down. OK,
So what this
actually tells you.
Think about it, when the unemployment
is higher, then
the yield rate is
high or increasing,
then it means the labor
market
is pretty competitive.
then what that leads to?It
will actually makes
people
hard to
find a job.
So lower
yield to e-flow.
Right. You can stop at here a little bit
to think about the logic. OK,
let's move on.
So here is another sense of the data. It
is still plotting the unemployment rate
versus another flow
variable, which is the proportion of
workers become unemployed.
So if you look at. So
we are here talking about the proportion
of workers become unemployed. So it will
be the flow of
employed become unemployed. And
go back to the graph.
This will be the flow 1, right,
from employed to unemployed.
And divided by-- it is talking about
proportion divided by the origin of the
stock. Divided by the employed
population. Then this flow
variables comparing with the
unemployment rates,
they also show a very, very strong
co-movement. OK and and
the scale is reversed to the original
scale, right?The the the
proportion of workers become unemployed
is higher.
If the the the value is more to
the top, OK, so they
have the call movement and actually
basically the graph is telling you when
unemployment rate is high, high
proportion of workers account unemployed
and this is also
coming with the similar logic that we
have. talked about in the previous
slides. So for example,
we are talking about higher unemployment
rate. Still, that
means that the labor market is more
competitive
and that will lead
people
to lose their job
easier.
Right. So the flow
from E to U,
sorry.
Anyway, you can pause this
a little bit to digest.
So let me recap a little bit. What do you
mean by labor market more competitive?
The more competitive labor market means
that we we are looking from the
perspective of worker
labor supplier, right?
The market is more competitive means you
have more competitors, more
people are fighting if OK,
for example, if you don't have a job
right now, more people are
more, more people are in the same shoe
as you. They are also fighting for a job.
So there are more people fighting for for
one job that the
probability of you to get the job will
be very low, right?I mean
the probability will be decreasing with
the amount of people
is competing, right?With more people
is competing, right?
And from another. Side of the
market, if you have a job
and the labor market is more competitive
means that
you can think of the same as many people
are actually fighting for your position.
So there will be more
with more people that will be more
likely that you will going to lose your
job. OK. So that's one one way
to see it. Another way would be
from the
cost cutting point of view
is like it is a more
competitive labor market. Firms
will want to shrink their production, cut
some position, right. And then in that
sense, the probability
of you losing your position will
be higher. Right. So either
way it comes with the same
kind of logic that's more competitive
labor market that means so more
competition we we are facing the
from our point of view the
benefits will be
less, the cost will be more,
the probability of
surviving will be lower, OK.
So we need to keep this in mind.
We will already
revisit this material
when we talked about the wage setting.
OK, so here again,
when unemployment rate is high,
workers are worse off in two ways,
employed. will be more
likely to get unemployed.
Unemployed will be less
likely to be employed, basically.
So now that we have talked about the
labor market movement,
the fundamental logic of the
labor market, we will go
straight into what we call wage
determination. So this is
actually from the point of view from the
workers, OK.
We are actually the supplier of
labor. Firms are actually the consumer of
labor. They are buying our services and
we are selling our services
and the price of the services
that we are talking in this
market, like the the service that has
changed in this market.
Will be labor and the price of the labor,
we call it wage. OK. So
here the wage determination is actually
from the supplier side telling us
our willingness to sell,
telling us the workers' willingness to
sell their labor. OK.
So besides the labor
market situation that we have talked
about. There are several other
factors that could impact
workers' willingness to sell.
So we will talk about this extra factor
1st and then we go back to form the
basic supply and demand. Basically here
we talk about the supply first, right.
So about other factors that will change
the labor supply, the first will be what
we call collective bargaining.
So basically, all else equal,
if we have a
stronger collective bargaining,
the workers' willingness to sell will be
higher. So what?
What is collective bargaining?
So think about the reality.
A firm is hiring
many workers, so it. It is.
It is many
versus one situation.
And if the workers are actually
negotiating with the firm for their
wage one, one versus
one, then
the workers actually
could have higher bargaining power
if many workers unite together.
OK, so if there are many workers are
united cater
negotiating for
the wage with firm as a
group instead of one person,
one individual each,
then they will actually have more
bargaining power because
they can actually put more
threats to the firm that OK if.
The firm is not agreeing this
wage to all of us
as a group, then
we will we as a group will find
another firm, right?When
you're negotiating with the firm
one versus one, then firm
can actually easy to find other
people to to replace you if.
Both of you cannot agree with a good
price, right?But it is very
hard for a firm to actually all of a
sudden find a replacement for 10
people, for 20 people.
OK, that's the reason
in many developed market
you have a labour union or workers union
to to form this collective bargaining,
OK. So if the firm is
harder to find
replacement of multiple people
at the same time, then that group of
people will have more advantage.
The firm will actually willing to pay
higher price, right?And then
and also as a
labor union member,
you will not willing to walk
with a lower price, right?So collective
bargaining. Will increase the
wage, OK.
And as a fact actually Uh European
country will actually have stronger labor
union comparing to
US and the most famous
or the strongest labor union will
be maybe you have heard of it UAW,
Uh United Automobile Walkers actually all
related from Um
from the theDetroit.
Another factor that could also
impact uh
workers willingness to sell of their
labor will be the reservation wage.
OK, so you can think of reservation
wage as an opportunity cost
of the workers. So.
For in terms of workers, you
workers have let's say 8 hours
a day. Either he choose to work for a
company for a wage
or probably he could
set up his own business, right?
So if his second choice
is very high, that means like he has very
high opportunity cost, then he
will be less likely to win. to walk
for a wage so that he
will want to actually walk for a higher
wage, right?So if the uh
market, if the economy gives
people a better
opportunity cost, a better second choice,
then it will actually level up the
wage that workers are asking for,
right?So for example,Think
about the infrastructures. If
um it let's say for a
city that they have a lot of
policy that actually promoting uh
entrepreneurship to start start up your
own business, then people's uh
actually um
willingness to walk will
be higher because
um their wage must. At least
match their opportunity
cost, which is set up their own business,
right?If you have a bad environment to
set up your own business and
getting away. from a firm will be
more stable, then
the basically the opportunity
cost for people will be lower than the
reservation wage will be lower and people
are willing to work for a lower price.
Uh For example, in some
country it will be more ideal to work for
the government, right?That
is basically the reservation
Wage for them will be low
and working for government as you know
and I think
um in comparing to other
jobs in in many of the
economy will be uh lower wage
job OK.
Um, the third factor that could change
people, Uh workers willingness to sell
their labor will be
efficiency wage.
So this is actually a
theory that some company actually believe
that if they
basically pay their worker
very, very well, then they will
they can buy the actual loyalty.
And the lecture productivity of
the labor because like
this job is actually higher than the
market equilibrium. So people will more
likely to stay on this job, right. They
become more loyal and they are
actually paid. So they're in a
better mood. So they are, they will be
more productive and also they would need
to prove themselves towards
this job.
Other than that, otherwise the firm will
actually replace them, right?Because this
is a job that everyone wants,
so the productivity will be higher.
OK, This will actually also change the
people's willingness to pay, right?If
more more firms are believing are
actually establishing
this efficiency wage,
then. Um, people's willingness to
walk will be higher as well. So for
example, um,
many tech firms
are promoting their culture
that they are. They can um,
they they allow for flexible walking
hours. They can dress very
casually to walk. They can have
snacks. during walks and they're
actually supplying snacks for
free or even meal for free to
the walkers. They are allowed to bring
their pets to
walk. All this culture is
actually part within
this
efficiency wage theories like
these are notDirectly
monetize benefit, but
actually benefits that can change
people's productivity and welfare,
right?For people who value this,
it is at least as if the
firm is actually paying extra money.
It's to them. OK,
so this theory is actually developed
by the Ford Motor. A
company either by
Henry Ford, right. They basically pay
two times of the market's
wage to their workers and that
actually creates partially.
This is also the reason that creates the
Ford miracle that they are
selling them the.
most sold car model in the world,
right?And more and more
talented workers are flooded to
to Detroit to be in the Ford
County.
Okay, so these are
three factors that
would change the labor
supply, but here,
We will talk about the labor
supply completely build up the model
from the scratch. OK, so
here is the situation. We want
to write a
description of how wage
is determined in the market.
So the wage here will be the price of
the. price of the
surveys people are selling, like their
labor. And
here the wage
is more, it's
the willingness to sell.
Because wage determination, although it
is not exactly as the
labor supply,
but it's actually
alternate form of labor supply.
OK, we are actually describing
the people's willingness
to sell depends on
the all the relevant factors. OK, so
there's three different factors.
First of all, the willingness to sell
will depends on the expected
price. So it will
depends possibly on the expected price
level. So
basically that is coming from if
the if the workers are expecting
the overall price level will be higher
for the economy, that means for them the
cost of living will be higher, so they
will have to request a higher
wage. OK. They they
their willingness to sell
their labor at a higher price.
OK. So it is possibly related
to the wage.
And the second factor will be the most
important factor will be the
unemployment rate. It's the unemployment
rate actually is related to the
quantity of labor supply.
We will divide you ohh
later at the end.
So how would the unemployment rate
relate to the
workers willing to sell?OK, that's
will actually require us to go
back to this geograph. OK,
higher unemployment rate means
labor market is more competitive.
It is harder to find a job,
higher unemployment rate, labor market
more competitive, easier to
lose a job.
So from this logic,
OK, so let's go, let's see this
together. So when unemployment rate is
high, that means
less people already got a job.
Right. Unemployment rate is very high.
Many people are not having a job,
so that means less people have a job. OK.
And that also means more people are
available for a job. But
this is in a very
fierce situation, very brutal
situation. There are more
condition in the labor market.
Unemployed workers are more willing to
work for lower wage.
OK, so the logic is like this.
You face a lot of competition. Many
people are in the same shoe as you
fighting for a job. In order for you
to pick up like all else equal, like
all these peoples are having the same
abilities, same education level, same
experiences. OK,
even. That's why the friend choose you
instead of him. So
he choose you because you are willing to
walk for a lower price. Or else equal, if
the guy is willing to walk for a lower
price, then the friend is going to get
picked. So this
is when you is high,
workers will be more willing to
walk for a lower wage.
Basically, if you got higher,
then the
wage they're asking
will be lower.
U is unemployment rate.
OK, let me be precise.
OK,
so this is this situation.
On the contrary, when unemployment rate
is low,
so these are all your rates,
unemployment rates. When
unemployment rate is low, that means
more people already got a job,
right?And also from the other side, less
people. will be available for a job.
And that's you have a very good market
scenario, less competition in the labor
market. And
when there's
less competition,
everyone wants to actually ask for a
higher price.
And workers will be less unemployed,
workers will be less willing to work for
a lower wage. Right.
They don't have that much of the
competition. They don't need to drop
down their wage that much. OK,
so this is
reflecting a relationship
like this. When unemployment rate goes
down,
actually people are willing to
ask for a higher wage. The
workers are willing to sell. Their labor
at a higher wage. OK, so
combine this argument together. This
is a
negative relationship between the
unemployment rate and
wage. Wage is like the
willingness to sell in in this from
from from the wage determination part.
OK, so.
We decide, OK, we are not specifying the
exact functional form, but we say this is
a F function. The argument is
unemployment rate. It is negatively
related to the wage that
people the worker is asking for.
OK, so
here I've wrote the unemployment rates.
Here is actually a measure of the
competitiveness of the labor market.
how competitive the labor market
is. Yeah
So this is the second variable
unemployment rate. The third
will be the catch-all
variable Z that
includes
the
three other factors. That we
have talked about collective bargaining,
reservation wage, efficiency wage. OK,
let me write it here.
OK. And they are actually
positively related to the
willingness to sell for
labor. OK. So if you have higher
stronger labor union, then people
are actually willingness to
sell their labor at a higher price,
right. Same as reservation wage and
efficiency wage. OK, so
this together. Composites the
wage determination
1/2 part of the
labor market. OK,
remember this
is measuring. You can think of the
labor supply. So the wage here
is the willingness to sell. OK,
basically telling you, let's say for the
wage is $5. OK,
$20 per hour.
This This price
is actually determined by
these factors. OK, given these
factors, for example, the price level
expected price level is
$100 in as an
index value and then.
Unemployment rate is 5% and then
all the catch up variable
standardized to be for example
one then give you
all combine the workers combining all
this factor together produce a
price of their labor that they are
willing to sell. OK, so this
is about the labor supply part
of the market.
The next we're going to talk about the
price determination. By the way,
these are actually the discussion we have
talked about, so you can take a
closer look
if you have any confusion
about my explanation. This is the second
explanation that you can
find help with.
Yeah. So for the other part of
the market, we call
it price determination. OK. So
this is actually from the point of view
of the
labor demand.
So who will be the consumer of the labor?
It'll be firm side.
So this is from the point of view of
firms and here let me
put it out. This is from
the point of view of the
worker.
OK, so from the firm side,
how as a firm
determined the
price that they are
willing to pay for?the
workers, the price
that they are willing to buy
the labor um
from workers. So we're going to
construct their reasoning.
First of all, we need to, first of all,
firm is the, I mean
the the
fundamental
work for for firm is actually producing
goods, right?They're going to produce it
and going to sell it on the market.
So we will
model this production process
by a production function. So
Y is the output, to
be precise, will be the quantity of
output, number of
outputs the firm is produced.
OK. And this production
only using labor.
Um All the other
inputs for production will be
captured by this A.
OK.
So this production is
telling you, given this number
of workers,And with the
technology and other
capitals all
stacking together, OK, we have a
labor productivity A
these two times together. So this is the
labor productivity telling you
how many of the output can one worker is
produced times the number of workers
working for the firm. together generates
the white, the number of outputs
that a firm can produce. So this is the
production function. The
production function is the relation
between the inputs used in production and
the quantity of output produced
on the price of these inputs.
If we assume that A is constant
to simplify our model
and also A equals to one,
then the production function is
essentially the number of output
equals to the number of labor inputs.
OK, which implies that the cost of
producing one more unit of
output is the cost of employing
one more worker. at
wage W. How you
get from this?So
at current level, we are
producing with
N number of workers, we are producing Y
number of outputs. For one
extra worker, we can produce
Y plus 1, so one
extra unit of output. So the
marginal product will bethe new
product minus the old product, which is
1, marginal labor inputs will be the
new labor input minus the
original level, which is also
1. That actually implies
that the marginal cost, which is the
marginal cost of producing one extra
output, will be the unit
cost of labor, which is W,
times the marginal labor inputs.
which in this case is one.
And that's derived the
module cost will be W,
which is here.
So now um
we still thinking about from the
firm's perspective that how
he actually going to set the
wage that the firm is willing
to sell, sorry, willing to buy
is from this relationship. So
P is the
price that the product
could be sold. OK, so the
firm is, for this actual
labor input one, OK, he will
produce actual one unit
of output. This will bring1 *
P amount of benefits
and the cost for him is actually
W and 1 + m is measuring
how far it is from the
benefits comparing to the
cost of firm, right?
Remember firm is
hiring worker.
With wage W
and selling products
or outputs
at price
P OK, the
P is in a very
general sense the
general. price level of the
economy. OK,
so to link the
module benefits and the modular cost
of the firm is by this
variable called markup.
So basically, one plus this markup is
measuring how distant the
the module benefit versus the module cost
of a firm, basically measuring
um the
The the gap between the marginal benefit
and the marginal cost. If
M is larger, that means the firm
will have bigger
profit space.
OK, so this markup actually
depends. This actually measures the
product
output. OK. the output
market
competitiveness.
So if
M is higher, that
means the product market
is
more or less
competitive.
So the idea is
if the product market is
more competitive, so it's
basically similar logic of the labor
market competitives. So if the product
market is more competitive, that means
there are many other firms that
producing same product.
Then naturally if you want to win the
purchase then you have to lower the
price, right?The
that means you will have
less profit margin.
That means the markup will
be lower, right?So
if the markup is higher, that means the
product market is less competitive.
OK. So
the markup is.
Measure of the product market
competitiveness so that
it is defined, it is decided by the
product market. OK. So it
is not decided by the
labor market. The labor market decides
the wage
from the
prices determination and the wage
determination. OK.
So let's move on
then. So
basically here we've
determined the price and determined the
wage. And now we will just put
these two together
to find the equilibrium. So there's some
kind of preparation first of all,
we. Because
let's recall that equation
7.1, which is the wage
determination that
is
the willingness to sell
of labor depends on the price
expectation times the F function
depends on U&Z positive,
sorry, negative and positively. related.
And here we assume that the
expected price level is the actual
price level. So basically people are
making perfect expectation.
When in this condition, OK,
we derive the real wage, so which
is W over the price level
as a F function.
Depends on UNZ.
And then we also need to change the
price determination, do some
manipulation, OK, write it
in terms of real wage as well. The real
price of Labor that the firm is
willingness to buy OK depends on
1 / 1 plus the markup.
So put these two equations together.
On the graph that have the Y axis
in terms of real wage,
X axis in terms of unemployment rate.
OK, so the wage setting determination.
Wage setting is basically the sorry, the
wage determination. OK.
So the willingness to sell of
labour from workers depends on
the F function which is negatively
related to you. So in terms of
unemployment rate you the
the curve which setting is
downward sloping and
then on the other side of the market
about the willingness to buy labour from
the. willingness to buy
labor,
which is the real
price equals
to 1 over 1 plus markup,
which is independent of the
unemployment rate. So it will become a
flat horizontal line,
which the level is marked by the
markup.
OK, and putting these two together,
Remember, we are making
assumption of
the expected price is the actual price
that people make perfect expectation.
And this equilibrium we find is actually
the medium run equilibrium
that OK, at
this level we will find the medium
run equilibrium level of
unemployment UN.
It is also called
the natural rate of unemployment or we
call structural rate of unemployment.
So this is a special
equilibrium which is medium run
equilibrium that people make perfect
expectation. OK.
And in another words, the economy
is at its potential,
so.
The equilibrium unemployment
rates when
the people make perfect expectation is
called the natural rate. OK, we will also
have the equilibrium
total output in natural rate, but
that will be decided by the ISLM
model incorporated with the labor market
equilibrium, which we will introduce
later. but just natural in
advance that um
equilibrium output will also have the
so-called natural rate.
Um Here is basically
we have covered the determination of
the price setting.
So let's follow up about the
natural rate.
So basically the
fundamental idea is
when the
expected price level is the
actual price level, then the economy is
in the medium run equilibrium.
In short run, OK, the price level could
be different or the same. as
the expected price level, like people may
guess it correct or guess it wrong. If
they guess it correct, then this
short-run equilibrium is automatically
also be the medium-run equilibrium.
But if they if people guess it wrong, so
the expected price level would
not be the actual price level, then
the economy is not at medium-run
equilibrium, but
It is still the in the
short-run equilibrium.
The equilibrium level is actually
the short-run equilibrium level.
So
to summarize,
OK, then
the short-run equilibrium
is also.
Medium run equilibrium. So because like
the economy is basically at the medium
run level. But if
not here, then
the short run equilibrium is not
medium run equilibrium. OK,
So what we're going to do next?In Chapter
8 and 9 is basically
incorporate the labor
market into our ISM model
and we will study first, OK, what
the economy will
be doing in medium run equilibria,
what it really means. OK, we will
actually revisit some of the ideas
introduced in this chapter and also we'll
talk about what if. The
economy is not at medium run equilibrium
and what we can do to
bring the economy back to the medium run
equilibrium, which is the potential
level, which is the natural rate
level. OK, so
that's pretty much the
overall structure of this chapter.
Before we conclude,
I will go back to talk about the labor
market equilibrium a little bit. So
as we have discussed,
let me put it here that the
price setting is more
about
labor demand
and the wage setting is
an alternative form of labor supply.
OK. So then
you can understand in a way that the
price setting or the wage setting
are just another
representation of the labor demand and
labor supply. So it is not
fundamentally different from the basic
supply and demand model
that if we have
change in the variables. that is
not the unemployment rate or
not the real wage, then it will
shift the curves. So
for example, in this in here, we
have an increase in unemployment benefit,
and this is captured by the z variable,
the catch-up variables in the f
function. z goes up,
so that means the wage
settingWe have Z goes up and
Z is possibly related to the real wage.
In that sense we have the wage
setting shift up OK
and then we will find a new level of
medium run unemployment
rates, medium run
equilibrium unemployment rate,
OK and
or from the other side of the market if.
So another scenario for an
increase in the markup. OK, so basically
we have M goes up, then
M only appears in the weight of price
setting. So if M goes up,
then the whole term will go down
so that the price setting will
shift down. That gives you also
another new medium
run. Equilibrium level of unemployment
rate, right?The natural rate of
unemployment rate will be go up.
OK, so the idea is the
same and
we will apply this method of
reasoning in analyzing
the labor market equilibrium.
OK.
Okay, I will briefly talk about the
appendix, about the wish
and price setting. So,
basically, how does the,
what is the relationshipbetween the
wage setting,
which is the labor
supply,
which is the price setting about
labor demand.
OK, so basically the math
is a little bit of math.
So unemployment rate
Is this capital U the amount of
unemployed people over the amount of
people that is
employed that is in the labor
force?OK, L is the
labor force, which is
employed plus the
unemployed. OK, so in that
sense, the
unemployed. Will be
1 minus employed the L
minus employed.
So for the labor supply curve
building up from the wage setting.
So we write down the wage setting.
And the first argument is the
unemployment rate. We replace it with the
unemployed over the labor force. And then
here, we furtherly
replace it in terms of
employed people. So ohh
regarding the
law of supply, so when the price goes
up, the
quantityOf supply,
which is the amount of employed
people, right?The quantity of labor
supplied will goes up.
So
the whole argument is in an active
relationship when W
goes up that
actually because we have minus sign
and this is in the numerator with a minus
sign, so they actually.
Have a positive relationship, right?That
is actually confirming the law of supply.
So this is I'm proving you the
wage setting expression is
some alternate expression
of the labor supply.
OK, As for the labor demand,
which is from the price setting, it
is from this relation,
right?If the
price goes up.
Then the labor supply,
sorry, labor here is
actually not
depending on the quantity of
labor demand. It is actually a flat line.
OK.
So that's it. Thank you